How, if at all, should scholars incorporate mass public engagement into models of bureaucratic policymaking? This dissertation develops and tests theories about the roles of individuals, organizations, coalitions, and social movements in bureaucratic policymaking. 
Chapter 1 introduces the role of bureaucratic policymaking and public pressure campaigns in the politics of large democracies.  
Chapter 2 addresses who participates in public pressure campaigns and why. Are public pressure campaigns, like other lobbying tactics, primarily used by well-resourced groups to create an impression of public support? Or are they better understood as conflict expansion tactics used by less-resourced groups? To answer these questions, I collect and analyze millions of public comments on draft agency rules. Using text analysis methods underlying plagiarism detection, I match individual public comments to pressure-group campaigns. Contrary to other forms of lobbying, I find that mass comment campaigns are almost always a conflict expansion tactic rather than well-resourced groups creating an impression of public support. Most public comments are mobilized by public interest organizations, not by narrow private interests or astroturf campaigns. However, the resources and capacities required to launch a campaign cause a few larger policy advocacy organizations to dominate. Over 80 percent of public comments were mobilized by just 100 organizations, most of which lobby in the same public interest coalitions. I also find no evidence of negativity bias in public comments. Instead, most commenters supported draft policies during the Obama administration but opposed those of the Trump administration, reflecting the partisan biases of mobilizing groups.
Chapter 3 leverages a mix of hand-coding and computational text analysis methods to assess whether public pressure campaigns increase lobbying success. I also assess potential mechanisms by which public pressure may affect policy. I focus on congressional oversight as a mediator in policy influence, i.e., the extent to which public pressure campaigns affect policy indirectly through their effects on legislators' oversight behaviors. I find that public pressure campaigns are correlated with congressional attention and that coalitions with more congressional support are more likely to achieve their policy goals. However, the relationship between pressure campaigns and policy influence is unclear and confounded in several ways. For example, members of Congress are more likely to join business-led coalitions, not the public interest groups that lead most pressure campaigns. Additionally, compared to business-led coalitions, public interest groups are more likely to mobilize public pressure for longer-term power-building goals, making public interest groups less likely to have their policy demands met in any particular policy fight.
Chapter 4 brings in the literature on social movement pressure to show that pressure campaigns are more than a lobbying tactic; they are also an institutionalized form of contentious politics over the distribution of governmental power. I examine the discursive effects of environmental justice claims both qualitatively and quantitatively, including the role of Native activists and environmental groups in shaping federal environmental regulations. I find that agencies frequently ignore environmental justice concerns but are more likely to add language addressing environmental justice in their final rules when public comments raise environmental justice concerns. 
Chapter 5 concludes with implications for theories of bureaucratic policymaking and future research, a review of dominant ways of thinking about public comment periods, and proposed reforms to participatory processes in light of the empirical evidence provided in the previous chapters.