Nearly all public participation in policymaking is organized by campaigns. Indeed, 80% of public comments are mobilized by just 100 organizations.
Pressure campaigns build movements, get policymakers' attention (legislators, bureaucrats, and judges), and systematically counter corporate power by generating political information---information about public demands. Astroturf is rare because bureaucratic policymakers are sophisticated consumers of political information. 
Yet, public input processes privilege elites & rarely address biases in how organizations mobilize & represent people. Compared to legislative policymaking, our current institutions of bureaucratic policymaking devalue political information and have less capacity to process and incorporate it.
Because nearly all public participation is mobilized, public attention and pressure skew toward policy issues where public interest coalitions are better organized and have built the capacity to target bureaucratic policymaking. For example, environmental and health policy receive a disproportionate amount of public attention because environmental groups, public health groups, and seniors are well organized and experienced in targeting agencies. In contrast, public interest groups are less well organized around transportation and immigration policy.
Thus, the effects of pressure campaigns on congressional oversight, bureaucratic policymaking, and judicial review are shaped by the organization and mobilization of interest, as well as institutional capacities to incorporate political information. 