With the rise of the administrative state, U.S. federal agencies have
become a major site of policymaking and political conflict. By some
estimates, upward of 90% of legally binding U.S. federal policy is now
written by agencies. Agency rules are revised much more frequently than
statutory law [@Wagner2017] and in the years or decades between
legislative enactments, federal agencies make legally-binding rules
interpreting and reinterpreting old statutes to address emerging issues
and priorities. Examples are striking: The effect of the Dodd-Frank Wall
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was largely unknown until the
specific regulations were written, and it continues to change as these
rules are revised. Congress authorizes billions in farm subsidies and
leases for public lands, but who gets them depends on agency policy. In
the decades since the last major environmental legislation, agencies
have written thousands of pages of new environmental regulations and
thousands more changing tack under each new administration. These
revisions significantly shape lives and fortunes. For example, in 2006,
citing the authority of statutes last amended in the 1950s, the Justice
Department's Bureau of Prisons proposed a rule restricting eligibility
for parole. In 2016, the Bureau withdrew this rule and announced it
would require fewer contracts with private prison companies,
precipitating a 50% loss of industry stock value. Six months later, a
new attorney general announced these policies would again be reversed,
leading to a 130% increase in industry stock value. Agency rulemaking
matters.

Less clear, however, is how the new centrality of agency rulemaking fits
with democracy. In addition the bureaucracy's complex relationships with
the president and Congress, agencies have complex and poorly understood
relationships with the public and advocacy groups. Relationships with
constituent groups may even provide agencies with a degree of "autonomy"
from their official principals [@Carpenter2001].
