<!--
Chapter 1, "Bureaucratic Policymaking in American Politics," situates agency rulemaking in the context of the broad view of American politics. I show the scale of policymaking and the types of policies that federal agencies make, examining how patterns in bureaucratic policymaking do and do not align with shifts in the broader political system. Tracing broad trends over the past 40 years, I show that rulemaking has become a major site of policymaking and political conflict. The policy conflicts and the relative attention that the bureaucracy pays to different policy areas aligns with broader shifts in mass politics and partisan control of congress and the presidency in some policy areas more than others.
-->

Chapter 2, "Why Do Agencies (Sometimes) Get So Much Mail?" addresses who participates in public pressure campaigns and why. Are public pressure campaigns, like other lobbying tactics, primarily used by well-resourced groups to create an "astroturf" impression of public support? Or are they better understood as conflict expansion tactics used by less-resourced "grassroots" groups? I find that mass comment campaigns are almost always a conflict expansion tactic. Furthermore, I find no evidence of negativity bias in public comments. While most comments opposed proposed rules during the Trump administration, most comments supported proposed rules during the Obama administration. This is because public comments tend to support Democratic policies and oppose Republican policies, reflecting the asymmetry in mobilizing groups.

<!--**Chapter 3 "Do Public Pressure Campaigns Influence Congressional Oversight?"** examines the effect of public pressure campaigns on whether legislators are more likely to engage in rulemaking. This involves collecting and coding thousands of comments from Members of Congress on proposed rules with and without public pressure campaigns. These data also allow me to assess congressional oversight as a mediator in policy influence, i.e., the extent to which public pressure campaigns affect policy indirectly through their effects on legislators' oversight behaviors.-->

Chapter 3, "Do Public Pressure Campaigns Influence Policy?" leverages a mix of hand-coding and computational text analysis methods to assess whether public pressure campaigns increase lobbying success. To measure lobbying success, I develop computational methods to identify lobbying coalitions and estimate their effect on each rule posted for comment on regulations.gov. I then validate these methods against a random sample of rules, hand-coded for whether each lobbying coalition got the policy outcome they sought. Finally, I assess potential mechanisms by which mass public engagement may affect policy. I focus on congressional oversight as a mediator in policy influence, i.e., the extent to which public pressure campaigns affect policy indirectly through their effects on legislators' oversight behaviors. I find that public pressure campaigns are correlated with congressional attention but have little relationship with policy outcomes. 


Chapter 4, "The Environmental Justice Movement and Bureaucratic Policymaking," examines the discursive effects of environmental justice claims both qualitatively and quantitatively. I write about the role of Native activists and environmental groups in shaping federal environmental regulations. I find that agencies are more likely to add language addressing environmental justice in their final rules when public comments raise environmental justice concerns.

Chapter 5, "Reforming the Policy Process," reviews dominant ways of thinking about public comment periods and proposed reforms to participatory processes in light of the empirical evidence in the previous chapters. I start with a sketch of the various positions staked out by administrative law scholars, each rooted in different theories of democracy. I then review several specific challenges and proposed reforms to the policy process.