{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18920\viewh21600\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.annualreviews.org/doi/full/10.1146/annurev.polisci.10.072005.152119#"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs22\fsmilli11250 \cf4 Truman (1951)}}\'a0and other political scientists in the 1950s, who stressed the primacy of interest groups\'a0\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.annualreviews.org/doi/full/10.1146/annurev.polisci.10.072005.152119#"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs22\fsmilli11250 \cf4 Laski 1921}}). Laski downgraded the normative role of state sovereignty in comparison to the importance of social groupings, and his theory was called pluralism (although Laski himself later became a leading Marxist)\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 ahl described political campaigning, public policy making, bargaining among elites, and interest group behavior as political processes, but he viewed political institutions and political culture as more fixed and as responding to social changes\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf4 \cb1 in the issue domain of air pollution, studies by Jones (1975), Ornstein & Elder (1978), Ackerman & Hassler (1981), and Wenner (1982) all found that environmentalist groups have significant effects on public policy. Other au- thors (Berry 1977, McFarland 1984, Mitchell 1984, Nadel 1971, Vogel 1980/1981) chronicled the significant strength of public interest lobbies. Still others (Free- man 1975, Costain & Costain 1983, Klein 1984, Gelb & Palley 1982) found women\'92s lobbies to be important. McCarthy & Zald (1977) generalized from such observations to develop the resource mobilization theory of social move- ments, which implies that movements frequently create lobbying organizations. 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf4 \cb1 complex welter of group participation in pub- lic policy making (Jordan 1981, Jordan & Maloney 1996, Gray & Lowery 2004, Lowery & Brasher 2004). Within a single issue domain such as air pollution regu- lation, one might find producers of electricity, coal mining companies, auto man- ufacturers, the United Auto Workers, railroads (carriers of coal), environmentalist groups, the American Lung Association, the American Public Health Association, various state governments, the association of state public utility regulators, and probably other groups. 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf4 \cb1 groups maneuvering to call attention to their policy preferences as they attempt to influence decision makers in different political venues (Baumgartner & Jones 1993, Jones 1994, Jones & Baumgartner 2005). 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf4 \cb1 o \'93protest as a political resource\'94 rather than protest as \'93power\'94 itself. Lipsky observed that the economic stakeholders normally were powerful in the domain of city housing rent regulation, but he found that a social movement could form organizations to challenge economic power. 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Rule making is (often) a window of opportunity (Kingdon 1984)\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf4 \cb1 Heclo\'92s concept of the policy network. If a scholar becomes very familiar with a policy network, he or she becomes aware of persons or groups putting forth proposals rejected by others in the network. Such ideas, perhaps put forth by socialists or evangelical Christians, may not get attention in the institutional forums of policy discussion, but their defeat can be observed within the policy network. A similar idea is the concept of \'93hidden narratives,\'94 derived by Scott (1990) from postmodern historical studies. 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
}