{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww19160\viewh14280\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li640\fi-640\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Howlett, M. P. and J. S. Cuenca. 2017. \'93The Use of Indicators in Environmental Policy Appraisal: Lessons from the Design and Evolution of Water Security Policy Measures.\'94 
\f1\i Journal of Environmental Policy and Planning
\f0\i0  19(2).\
Hughes, Sara. 2012. \'93Voluntary Environmental Programs in the Public Sector: Evaluating an Urban Water Conservation Program in California.\'94 
\f1\i Policy Studies Journal
\f0\i0  40(4):650\'9673.\
Prakash, Aseem and Matthew Potoski. 2014. \'93Global Private Regimes, Domestic Public Law.\'94 
\f1\i Comparative Political Studies
\f0\i0  47(3):369\'9694.\
Balla, Steven J. and John R. Wright. 2001. \'93Interest Groups, Advisory Committees, and Congressional Control of the Bureaucracy.\'94 
\f1\i American Journal of Political Science
\f0\i0  45(4):799.\
Bullard, Robert D. 1993. \'93Race and Environmental Justice in the United States Recommended Citation Race and Environmental Justice in the United States.\'94 
\f1\i Yale Journal of International Law
\f0\i0  18.\
Koski, Chris and Peter J. May. 2005. \'93Interests and Implementation: Fostering Voluntary Regulatory Actions.\'94 
\f1\i Journal of Public Administration Research and Theory
\f0\i0  16(3):329\'9649.\
Ruhl, J. B. B. 2010. \'93Climate Change Adaptation and the Structural Transformation of Environmental Law.\'94 
\f1\i Environmental Law
\f0\i0  40(363).\
Walters, Daniel E. 2019. \'93Capturing the Regulatory Agenda: An Empirical Study of Agency Responsiveness to Rulemaking Petitions.\'94 
\f1\i Harvard Environmental Law Review
\f0\i0  42(1):175\'96223.\
Olson, Deanna H., Paul D. Anderson, Christopher A. Frissell, Hartwell H. Welsh, and David F. Bradford. 2007. \'93Biodiversity Management Approaches for Stream\'96Riparian Areas: Perspectives for Pacific Northwest Headwater Forests, Microclimates, and Amphibians.\'94 
\f1\i Forest Ecology and Management
\f0\i0  246:81\'96107.\
Parkyn, Stephanie M., Rob J. Davies-Colley, N. Jane Halliday, Kerry J. Costley, and Glenys F. Croker. 2003. \'93Planted Riparian Buffer Zones in New Zealand: Do They Live up to Expectations?\'94 
\f1\i Restoration Ecology
\f0\i0  11(4):436\'9647.\
Seifter, Miriam. 2016. \'93Second-Order Participation in Administrative Law.\'94 
\f1\i UCLA Law Review
\f0\i0  63(1300).\
Cu\'e9llar, Mariano-Florentino. 2005. \'93Rethinking Regulatory Democracy.\'94 
\f1\i Administrative Law Review
\f0\i0  57(2).\
Golden, Marissa Martino. 1998. \'93Interest Groups in the Rule-Making Process: Who Participates? Whose Voices Get Heard?\'94 
\f1\i Journal of Public Administration Research and Theory
\f0\i0  8(2):245\'9670.\
Balla, Steven J. 1998. \'93Administrative Procedures and Political Control of the Bureaucracy.\'94 
\f1\i American Political Science Review
\f0\i0  92(03):663\'9673.\
Brunel, Claire and Arik Levinson. 2016. \'93Measuring the Stringency of Environmental Regulations.\'94 
\f1\i Review of Environmental Economics and Policy
\f0\i0  10(1):47\'9667.\
}