{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww23180\viewh14200\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
Each week, students in my public policy class must write to an elected official or comment on a proposed agency rule and then post about it in the class forum. \
\
But my students should not be the target demographic for notice and comment rulemaking--they are too informed and have too much time to write thoughtful comments. If we wish to realize the ideals of the APA, we must broaden participation. Can we do this? Is it worthwhile? Many scholars assume not, but the data offer some hope. \
\
unwashed masses \
\
self appointed volunteers\
\
A few questions: can the unwashed masses provide useful information to agencies? My answer is yes. Will this information be biased? Yes, but all information provided by lobbying groups has a bias, the task is to make biases transparent, and reforms could do this. \
\
1. First we must dispense with the idea that agencies merely implement the law. The APA was passed provides for public participation because ideal of direct democracy might affect the important substantive policy made by agencies. Indeed, agencies are often seeking comment on revisions to rules based on authority delegated decades ago. Agency must make policy to satisfy their mandates. The present question is what process? Calling for greater congressional oversight or presidential control side-steps the issue--by what process should agencies make policy?  (Indeed, Potter's recent book shows us that agencies often side-step oversight, making their procedural rules all the more important.)\
\
\
\
2. Critics may argue that opening the door wider to petition campaigns lets in biases. Indeed we know that those self-appointed people are disproportionately. In an unequal socieity, we have unequal participation, but higher barriers to entry only make this worse.  More problematic is the idea that well-funded group who typically dominate rule making (Yackee) will sponsor astro-turf campaigns, thus creating a false impression of public support. This is a real concern. If dark money can secretly drive impressions of support for a policy, the case for expanding participation is weekend.  Hopefully, my analysis suggests that this is uncommon. the fast \
The fact that we do not observe it now does not mean it will not occur, but agencies could b\
\
Reforms along the lines have been suggested. ___ would like polls. Nationally representative polling may be a good investment for some rules, but we know from polling research that individuals do not always have clearly formed opinions and much depends on question wording. The reality is that american politics is animated through groups--people rely on organizations they trust to keep them informed and engaged. In classic pluralist fashion, organizations claim to represent segments of the population in rulemaking. Because these organizations \
\
Raso suggests similar reforms \
\
as others have pointed out \
\
As the moderator of my class's forum I can co-sign research on discursive democracy initiatives that realizing transformative discourse is difficult. the ideal of "transformed into something" is laudable but people are busy and any barrier to participation will massively reduce participation. Participation already follows a log scale distribution, with most rules receiving no comments--even major rules, on average receive less than 10. \
\
Two reforms: \
1) Agencies encourage groups to mobilize in support of the groups' answer to the questions agencies ask in NPRM. Given past trends, this will likely take the form of petition campaigns and agencies should have a mechanism to receive those comments as such. Lobbying groups should be allowed to petition the agency to ask additional questions. Agencies could also lower the bar to participation buy posting answers to their questions from different organizations and allow people to co-sign them or disagree with them. This is both easier for participants and requires less work for agencies to interpret where the commenter stands. \
\
2) The risk of astro-turf is real under any public comment system (including the current one), but transparency requirements can go a long way. Organizations or individuals acting in their professional capacity as organizations (not individuals) should be required to disclose where the money the paid for them to produce their comments came from. Likewise, organizations running campaigns should disclose the sources of funding for the campaigns and how how much they spent mobilizing public support. These numbers will provide a helpful demomoninator for agencies to gaduge public enthusiasm.}