{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
Elizabeth Kowalewski: I will be discussing how to analyze the PDF attachments during my presentation\
\
Anna Chauvet: Which data analytics software do you recommend using?\
\
Alex Howard: Thank you for brining up the question  Please aaad the text of these instead of summarizing them. It's true that agencies use social media to alert people, but not often. How many dockets has the FDA promoted on social media? Why shouldn't modernization include systematic memorialization of promotion of dockets on social media? Agencies already archive socail media posts by leadership, like Dr. Gottlieb.\
\
Daniene Byrne: When I download using an api the comments are all listed as web addresses. How does one get the text for PDF's? \
\
Tom Sabo: PDF is a good question. Part of this is identifying whether there is form data associted to it, and automated extraction on that form data\
\
Chris Wolz: What will be GSA's process / schedule following this meeting to define requirements for the new platform? \
\
Stu Shulman: i of all the duplicate all of the near duplicates are required plus the singles\
\
Dylan Stroman, Court Reporter: Who is speaking currently?\
\
Aaron Meyers: that is tom sabo\
\
Daniene Byrne: Thanks T.S. would that be done in python?\
\
Dylan Stroman, Court Reporter: Thank you.\
\
Stu Shulman: One copy of every form, every near duplicate, and all singles are the minimal legal requirement\
\
Sam Le: Thank you, Elizabeth. I am not able to get to the PDF through a URL--you have to go to the page and download the individual PDF. That makes it hard to batch download them. -Sam\
\
Deborah Bartram: How do text analytics work with non-machine readable comments?\
\
Aaron Meyers: everyone, just as an FYI, i will be killing the chat pod between Q and A sessions. it will help our resizing issues\
\
Tom Sabo: you could do it in python. SAS has a bunch of tools that eases the process in a graphical user interface\
\
Cali Diehl: What is the specific text analysis software that was just discussed? Are there any plans to roll out enhanced text analysis for public comments across federal agencies?\
\
Maria K.: Aren't there times when comment volume should be taken into account, even if many are form letters?  Particularly if overwhelming majorities of the commenting public express a certain opinon on the rulemaking.\
\
Stu Shulman: DiscoverText.comis a GSA Schedule 70 product \
\
Elizabeth Kowalewski: Sam, yes, I will touch on our experience with this in panel 3\
\
Tom Sabo: at the end of the day, a combination of code and gui can really help... not everyone is a coder but do have business acumen that needs to be incorporated\
\
Stu Shulman: We started research on this in 2000. \
\
Alex Howard: Given the clear benefits that collecting comments as structured data has for both analytics and disclosure, why isn't the GSA eliminating the use of PDFs as a format? \
\
Sarah Selenich: Agencies sometimes request comments on several specific things. Is there a way to ask commenters to select which requests they are responding to/organize comments. This would also help with oganizing those that are not germane to a request.\
\
Anna Chauvet: Do you have more information about how you handle confidential information being submitted?\
\
Todd Rubin: Do agencies have the option to allow comments to go live on Regulations.gov as soon as they are submitted?  Do any agencies exercise this option or do they all choose to upload the comments themselves?\
\
Stu Shulman: PDFs: print them and get out your highlighter pens...\
\
Stu Shulman: There is no OCR that produces legally defensible plain text in 100% of documents.\
\
Jamie Conrad: Todd Rubin's question is good, too -- often comments don't get posted for a long time.  Why not have them post automatically, and then you can weed out the offensive and irrelevant ones later.\
\
Stu Shulman: PDFs? Ban them!\
\
Andrew Emery: DocketCAT uses the API to access Regulations.gov and also has techology to read PDFs, regardless of how they are formed.\
\
Alex Howard: The best way to avoid errors from OCR'ed a PDF is to not put data in PDFs. How is the GSA ensuring that agencies collect & disclose rata in an open, structured format as the OPEN Governmetn Data Act requires? \
\
Stu Shulman: +1 Alex\
\
Daniene Byrne: require comments by text\
\
Aaron Meyers: If we do not have time to get to your question please be aware we will be reviewing questions and comments on regulations.gov  https://www.regulations.gov/document?D=GSA-GSA-2020-0002-0012\
\
Devin Judge-Lord: +1 Alex\
\
Stu Shulman: Do not shut off this chat\
\
Stu Shulman: The whole point of online is in this chat box\
\
Daniene Byrne: thanks Andrew\
\
Tom Sabo: text is definitely easier to analyze - there is often damage to text from an OCR process. We can fix some of that after the fact but it's not perfect\
\
Gabrielle Perret: GSA is seeking public comment on any matters related to the modernization of Electronic Rulemaking Management. You can learn more and submit your comment here: regulations.gov/document?D=GSA-GSA-2020-0002-0012\
\
Aaron Meyers: ill do my best to maintain the chat window, if it blocks the presentation during speaking it will come back at Q and A\
\
Alex Howard: @Aaron Meyers: Thank you. I hope the GSA will address the security issue posed by requiring us to have and use Flash. There are other virtual meeting options. \
\
Alex Howard: @Gabrielle: Thank you! The notice has been updated and says "Comments related to any aspect of modernization of Electronic Rulemaking Management must be submitted no later than Wednesday, June 3, 2020" -- not today. Can you please confirm?\
\
Stu Shulman: https://www.screencast.com/t/JdV0uoruZ DOI software training for public comment management\
\
Stu Shulman: https://www.screencast.com/t/qHvo4Ck18d FWS software training on public comment review\
\
Gabrielle Perret: @Alex - It has been extended to June 5: https://www.regulations.gov/docket?D=GSA-GSA-2020-0002\
\
Stu Shulman: https://scholarworks.umass.edu/erulemaking/\
\
Jeffrey Lubbers: Powerpoints are not displayin properly.\
\
Devin Judge-Lord: If agencies write rules based on analysis\'a0of comments from consultants, the methods and software code used to summarize or "weed out" comments should be part of the record. Is there an example where these supplemental\'a0files have been posted?\'a0\
\
TheOne: solid point Devin\
\
Chandra Middleton: @Gabrielle -- The Federal Register announcment says June 3rd. Are comments due June 3rd or June 5th? Thanks for any clarification!\
\
Courtney Haueter: Excellent question @Devin!\
\
Jeffrey Lubbers: Question for Carey:  Ideally, the dockets for each individual rulemaking on regulations.gov should seek to include the all the meaningful steps in the process, not only the NPRM and comments and final rule, but also tapes of any hearings, OMB review documents, cost-benefit analyses, any other impact statements, SBREFA review panel documents, risk assessments, peer review information, court decisions, and links to relevant guidance documents?  Do you agree?\
\
Alex Howard: @Stu: the link the GSA staffer shared says June 3: https://www.regulations.gov/document?D=GSA-GSA-2020-0002-0012\
\
Stu Shulman: @Alex 1 comment?\
\
Stu Shulman: I thought I submitted a comment. \
\
Richard Belzer: A common problem I observe is a searchable title to a regulations.gov is diffeent from he PDFattached.\
\
Gabrielle Perret: @Alex - I just confirmed it is extended to June 5th and flagged for team to follow up on the site that says June 3\
\
Todd Rubin: Here is the link to ACUS's work on Regulations.gov that Ms. Cosby just referred to: https://www.acus.gov/research-projects/improving-access-regulationsgovs-rulemaking-dockets\
\
Molly Stasko: Can we receive a copy of this presentation?\
\
Aaron Meyers: yes.\
\
Aaron Meyers: to answer the question about the deadline, in the document it was the 3rd, we've extended it to the 5th to givem ore time\
\
Aaron Meyers: because of the time in which it published in the FR\
\
Aaron Meyers: versus what was originally predicted\
\
Jamie Conrad: One of the key ways that Regulations.gov could be improved would be to provide some structure for  agency "Supporting Documents."  E.g., for EPA's currently pending NPRM on CERCLA \'a7 108(b) for chemical facilities (EPA-HQ-OLEM-2019-0086), there are 1,018 supporting documents, in NO particular order.  It's a dog's breakfast.  This is typical. \
\
Stu Shulman: It might be useful to distribute this chat as a PDF after teh session to all attendees\
}