{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
Devin Judge-Lord: +1 Alex\
\
Stu Shulman: Do not shut off this chat\
\
Stu Shulman: The whole point of online is in this chat box\
\
Daniene Byrne: thanks Andrew\
\
Tom Sabo: text is definitely easier to analyze - there is often damage to text from an OCR process. We can fix some of that after the fact but it's not perfect\
\
Gabrielle Perret: GSA is seeking public comment on any matters related to the modernization of Electronic Rulemaking Management. You can learn more and submit your comment here: regulations.gov/document?D=GSA-GSA-2020-0002-0012\
\
Aaron Meyers: ill do my best to maintain the chat window, if it blocks the presentation during speaking it will come back at Q and A\
\
Alex Howard: @Aaron Meyers: Thank you. I hope the GSA will address the security issue posed by requiring us to have and use Flash. There are other virtual meeting options. \
\
Alex Howard: @Gabrielle: Thank you! The notice has been updated and says "Comments related to any aspect of modernization of Electronic Rulemaking Management must be submitted no later than Wednesday, June 3, 2020" -- not today. Can you please confirm?\
\
Stu Shulman: https://www.screencast.com/t/JdV0uoruZ DOI software training for public comment management\
\
Stu Shulman: https://www.screencast.com/t/qHvo4Ck18d FWS software training on public comment review\
\
Gabrielle Perret: @Alex - It has been extended to June 5: https://www.regulations.gov/docket?D=GSA-GSA-2020-0002\
\
Stu Shulman: https://scholarworks.umass.edu/erulemaking/\
\
Jeffrey Lubbers: Powerpoints are not displayin properly.\
\
Devin Judge-Lord: If agencies write rules based on analysis\'a0of comments from consultants, the methods and software code used to summarize or "weed out" comments should be part of the record. Is there an example where these supplemental\'a0files have been posted?\'a0\
\
TheOne: solid point Devin\
\
Chandra Middleton: @Gabrielle -- The Federal Register announcment says June 3rd. Are comments due June 3rd or June 5th? Thanks for any clarification!\
\
Courtney Haueter: Excellent question @Devin!\
\
Jeffrey Lubbers: Question for Carey:  Ideally, the dockets for each individual rulemaking on regulations.gov should seek to include the all the meaningful steps in the process, not only the NPRM and comments and final rule, but also tapes of any hearings, OMB review documents, cost-benefit analyses, any other impact statements, SBREFA review panel documents, risk assessments, peer review information, court decisions, and links to relevant guidance documents?  Do you agree?\
\
Alex Howard: @Stu: the link the GSA staffer shared says June 3: https://www.regulations.gov/document?D=GSA-GSA-2020-0002-0012\
\
Stu Shulman: @Alex 1 comment?\
\
Stu Shulman: I thought I submitted a comment. \
\
Richard Belzer: A common problem I observe is a searchable title to a regulations.gov is diffeent from he PDFattached.\
\
Gabrielle Perret: @Alex - I just confirmed it is extended to June 5th and flagged for team to follow up on the site that says June 3\
\
Todd Rubin: Here is the link to ACUS's work on Regulations.gov that Ms. Cosby just referred to: https://www.acus.gov/research-projects/improving-access-regulationsgovs-rulemaking-dockets\
\
Molly Stasko: Can we receive a copy of this presentation?\
\
Aaron Meyers: yes.\
\
Aaron Meyers: to answer the question about the deadline, in the document it was the 3rd, we've extended it to the 5th to givem ore time\
\
Aaron Meyers: because of the time in which it published in the FR\
\
Aaron Meyers: versus what was originally predicted\
\
Jamie Conrad: One of the key ways that Regulations.gov could be improved would be to provide some structure for  agency "Supporting Documents."  E.g., for EPA's currently pending NPRM on CERCLA \'a7 108(b) for chemical facilities (EPA-HQ-OLEM-2019-0086), there are 1,018 supporting documents, in NO particular order.  It's a dog's breakfast.  This is typical. \
\
Stu Shulman: It might be useful to distribute this chat as a PDF after teh session to all attendees\
\
Aaron Meyers: i'll make it all a record and email it out\
\
Aaron Meyers: with a transcript and link to a record of the video\
\
Deborah Bartram: good presentation Michelle!\
\
Stu Shulman: How many public comments have been submitted on this topic and when will they be posted?\
\
Devin Judge-Lord: Thanks, Michelle--these are important steps.\
\
Stu Shulman: You have to upgrade teh FDMS API before we can use it and we have used APIs for a decade.\
\
Stu Shulman: The FDMS API is incomplete\
\
Stu Shulman: The bulk extract is the only route for a legally defensible method\
\
Stu Shulman: Who is web scraping?\
\
Stu Shulman: When will non agency officials be able to request a bulk extract? Currently we get the dowload link and PIN from the agencies.\
\
Walton Francis: Just testing this comment system\
\
Jamie Conrad: The public should not have to use APIs to make use of Regs.gov.  It smacks of the bad old days, when you had to hire law firms to send paralegals to root through the (paper) docket.\
\
Richard Belzer: Amen, @Jamie.\
\
Alex Howard: @Stu this page shows 12 comments submitted to date: https://www.regulations.gov/document?D=GSA-GSA-2019-0002-0025 \
\
Devin Judge-Lord: I have not heard anything since Michelle finished. Is it just my audio? \
\
Alex Howard: +1 @Jamie\
\
Stu Shulman: @alex is there a way to read them?\
\
Walton Francis: It would be helpful to all to have email addresses for some of the key people commenting or responding: Aaron Meyers, Stu Shulman, Jeffrey Lubbers, Richard Belzer. I'm walton.francis@mac.com and will be sending a detailed comment on major regs.gov problems and how to fix them.\
\
Alex Howard: @Stu I don't see it through regs.gov right now\
\
Stu Shulman: @Walton stu@texifter.com \
\
Aaron Meyers: Aaron.Meyers@gsa.gov\
\
Stu Shulman: @alex seems odd,no?\
\
Lisa J McKeen: That would be fantastic!\
\
Todd Rubin: If you don't provide CBI/copyright to the public, do you explain that and the general nature of that material?\
\
Stu Shulman: Smart companies keep CBI out of public records\
\
Deborah Bartram: Copyright data are included in the index of a docket (their metadata), but the actual document is not available to download.  It is housed in a physical docket.\
\
Deborah Bartram: Which the public can access in person.\
\
Todd Rubin: If agencies are not publishing the CBI and copyrighted stuff that they rely on in drafting their rulemaking, shouldn't they tell the public that they've relied on these materials? And explain them in as great detail as possible without disclosing the protected content?\
\
Deborah Bartram: CBI is sanitized in a public docket\
\
Deborah Bartram: Again the metadata for CBI is included\
\
Jeffrey Lubbers: Jeffrey Lubbers--JSL26@aol.com\
\
Stu Shulman: Very easy to redact metadata in a corpus\
\
Deborah Bartram: CBI is part of the physical docket as well, but is not made available to the public\
\
Andrew Emery: Jamie, you are absloutely correct. The API access is just to allow the agency and others to grab all of the data in a docket.\
\
Richard Belzer: rbbelzer@post.harvard.edu\
\
Andrew Emery: andrew@reg-group.com\
\
Virginia Huth: I can hear you\
\
Virginia Huth: yes\
\
Courtney Haueter: Yes\
\
Stu Shulman: The Case Against Mass E\uc0\u8208 mails: Perverse Incentives and Low Quality Public Participation in U.S. Federal Rulemaking https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.2202/1944-2866.1010\
\
Aaron Meyers: Everyone, i've had a request to blank the name on someone's chat comment, if you wish the same please email me at aaron.meyers@gsa.gov, that is no problem\
\
Stu Shulman: Bulk extracts are better than a very poor API\
\
Daniene Byrne: Yes - big problem\
\
Devin Judge-Lord: +1 @Stu\
\
Stu Shulman: Maybe ask Twitter for help with your API structure\
\
Devin Judge-Lord: or really any API\
\
Sam Le: Add me to Team Bulk Extract\
\
Stu Shulman: +! Sam & Devin\
\
Mark Lawyer: Aaron, a number of years ago there was talk of FDMS developing some of the same language parsing capabilities (aside from just deduplication) that agencies currently seek from commercial software or contractors.  Specifically, issue identification and sorting.  Is that something that GSA is pursuing?\
\
}