{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
Stu Shulman: @alex seems odd,no?\
\
Lisa J McKeen: That would be fantastic!\
\
Todd Rubin: If you don't provide CBI/copyright to the public, do you explain that and the general nature of that material?\
\
Stu Shulman: Smart companies keep CBI out of public records\
\
Deborah Bartram: Copyright data are included in the index of a docket (their metadata), but the actual document is not available to download.  It is housed in a physical docket.\
\
Deborah Bartram: Which the public can access in person.\
\
Todd Rubin: If agencies are not publishing the CBI and copyrighted stuff that they rely on in drafting their rulemaking, shouldn't they tell the public that they've relied on these materials? And explain them in as great detail as possible without disclosing the protected content?\
\
Deborah Bartram: CBI is sanitized in a public docket\
\
Deborah Bartram: Again the metadata for CBI is included\
\
Jeffrey Lubbers: Jeffrey Lubbers--JSL26@aol.com\
\
Stu Shulman: Very easy to redact metadata in a corpus\
\
Deborah Bartram: CBI is part of the physical docket as well, but is not made available to the public\
\
Andrew Emery: Jamie, you are absloutely correct. The API access is just to allow the agency and others to grab all of the data in a docket.\
\
Richard Belzer: rbbelzer@post.harvard.edu\
\
Andrew Emery: andrew@reg-group.com\
\
Virginia Huth: I can hear you\
\
Virginia Huth: yes\
\
Courtney Haueter: Yes\
\
Stu Shulman: The Case Against Mass E\uc0\u8208 mails: Perverse Incentives and Low Quality Public Participation in U.S. Federal Rulemaking https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.2202/1944-2866.1010\
\
Aaron Meyers: Everyone, i've had a request to blank the name on someone's chat comment, if you wish the same please email me at aaron.meyers@gsa.gov, that is no problem\
\
Stu Shulman: Bulk extracts are better than a very poor API\
\
Daniene Byrne: Yes - big problem\
\
Devin Judge-Lord: +1 @Stu\
\
Stu Shulman: Maybe ask Twitter for help with your API structure\
\
Devin Judge-Lord: or really any API\
\
Sam Le: Add me to Team Bulk Extract\
\
Stu Shulman: +! Sam & Devin\
\
Mark Lawyer: Aaron, a number of years ago there was talk of FDMS developing some of the same language parsing capabilities (aside from just deduplication) that agencies currently seek from commercial software or contractors.  Specifically, issue identification and sorting.  Is that something that GSA is pursuing?\
\
Stu Shulman: @Mark: no one size fits all; you need to build one-off models for rules\
\
Dylan Stroman, Court Reporter: Lost the presenter. \
\
Dylan Stroman, Court Reporter: No longer able to hear anything.\
\
Char Mattson: lost comm\
\
Char Mattson: i hear you now\
\
Devin Judge-Lord: Is the code for this analysis of comments on github? I would contribute.\
\
Elizabeth Kowalewski: im trying to get in\
\
CART WRITER: Booted out\
\
Stu Shulman: we were all kicked out\
\
Michelle A Torreano: Yes, we are getting booted out\
\
Kelley Land: I was booted but able to return\
\
Stu Shulman: @Devin there is no master open source code for any of this\
\
Abdul Rasheed KHAN: I was just disconnected. But was able to connect again.\
\
Stuart Miles-McLean, USEPA: I got booted out suddenly and had to come back using your link: https://meet.gsa.gov/r4mgbtf1bw6b/\
\
Mary Frances Holland: I was able to use the link and join the meeting again.\
\
Elizabeth Kowalewski: im connected via phone now\
\
Kelley Land: I see the slides again\
\
Abdul Rasheed KHAN: Disconnecetd again and back again!\
\
Stu Shulman: The slides have been misdisplayed most of the meeting\
\
Stu Shulman: Reliable estimate?\
\
Stu Shulman: You need 100% of the comments to support a rulemaking.\
\
Deborah Bartram: lost slides again\
\
Stu Shulman: That bulk form letter in a PDF should be illegal.\
\
Richard Belzer 2: Wow.\
\
Stu Shulman: This PDF issues was around 10 years ago\
\
Stu Shulman: Ban them. Simple solution.\
\
Stu Shulman: No agency personnel will use Python or R unless they are programmers.\
\
Mark Lawyer: Stu, agree PDFs are a challenge.  Not sure banning them would work.  We may just need to step up and find solutions that are more efficient.\
\
Michelle A Torreano: Was just kicked out again and got back in\
\
Debra Janes: A real problem is the identifier that regs.gov gives each comment.  The number is not related to anything other than just a consecutive count.  Comments need to be organized by comment and it's attachments in a more meaningful way.  We do this on my Agency and we do not have a docket list of regs.gov numbers because they are so meaningless.  \
\
Devin Judge-Lord: I still have no audio and am seeing no CC\
\
Stu Shulman: I'm not sure why a proprietary format is legal.\
\
Deborah Bartram: Does GAO have a report of their analysis?\
\
Jeffrey Lubbers: Nice presentation Elizabeth, I look forward to reading your report.\
\
Devin Judge-Lord: the system hangs up on me when I call in and enter the conference code\
\
Elizabeth Kowalewski: our first report is GAO-19-483\
\
Therese Smith: Can I get a transcript or copy of this meeting later? Thanks. \
\
Deborah Bartram: thank you Elizabeth\
\
Dylan Stroman, Court Reporter: Can you sit a little closer to the microphone possibly? \
\
Alex Howard: I can see & hear you Hudson\
\
Stuart Miles-McLean, USEPA: I can see and hear you, but please speak up a bit. Thanks!\
\
Elizabeth Kowalewski: our ongoing work will be issued in 2021\
\
Stu Shulman: nope wrong slides\
\
Alex Howard: Elizabeth: this one, right? https://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-19-483 \
\
Stuart Miles-McLean, USEPA: I cannot see Hudson's slides\
\
Anthony: same\
\
Elizabeth Kowalewski: yes\
\
Virginia Huth: I am so sorry for the technical difficutlies.  We will send out all materials afterwards. \
\
Anthony: thanks!\
\
John Sullivan (OGP): I closed the appl and came back in, its working fine now. \
\
Mark Lawyer: Virginia, no worries.  Thanks for the program.  It's the content that counts.  We can deal with technical issues.\
\
Virginia Huth: Thanks for being a good sport!\
\
Catherine Beard: How can we request copies of today's materials?\
\
Debra Janes: Does he have slides?  IF so they are not posted.\
\
Virginia Huth: They will automatically be sent to all registrants\
\
Devin Judge-Lord: Thanks @Virginia\
\
Stu Shulman: We cannot see your slides\
\
Deborah Bartram: we still see the GAO slides\
\
Virginia Huth: oh my\
\
Debra Janes: I see GAO's last slide\
\
Carolyn Marsh: we can not see the slides\
\
SF: Not seeing the arrows\
\
Todd Rubin: I don't think anyone can see the slides.\
\
Lisa J McKeen 2: no slides\
\
Alex Howard: Context on United States Legislative Markup (USLM): https://www.govinfo.gov/features/beta-uslm-xmlGood idea!For more on this, follow/read @CongressData: https://congressionaldata.org/bulk-data-task-force-reports-major-strides-at-october-2019-meeting/\
\
Walter Zweigle (Tech Support): Please see my private chat below.\
\
Alex Howard: No slides, but can hear you Hudson\
\
Stuart Miles-McLean, USEPA: I was seeing the slides, but they disappeared. Now "Nothing is being shared"\
\
Anthony: panelists have handled delivering the content well despite the tech setbacks\
\
Michelle A Torreano: i saw them and had to forward them myself but now they are gone\
\
Michelle A Torreano: their back!\
\
Carolyn Marsh: we can see them now\
\
Deborah Bartram: yes\
\
Anthony: slides viewable\
\
Stuart Miles-McLean, USEPA: Yay!\
\
Debra Janes: yes.\
\
Brad Field: slides back up\
\
Stu Shulman: So, would every commenter be reuired to XML tag their public comment?\
\
Stu Shulman: Is that legal?\
\
Lisa J McKeen 2 2: Hi, there is a bad echo in the background\
\
Stu Shulman: <p>This is a paragraph with XML tags.</p><br />\
\
chris colburn 2: please send us the slides when they are available.  Thanks!!\
\
Richard Belzer 2: Dreamer!\
\
chris colburn 2: Richard Belzer - i know!\
\
Aaron Meyers: everyone, i have the emails you registered with, if you wish materials including this presentation, the transcript, the video and a copy of the chat to go to any other email please email me at aaron.meyers@gsa.gov\
\
Stu Shulman: There are two types of inventions: ones that would be amazing and ones that can be built.\
\
Daniene Byrne: Great - Thank you @aaron meyers\
\
Daniene Byrne: I have a question for Elizabeth, you mentioned the GSO asking for archived documents from agencies, how does this differ from the info in dockets?\
\
TJ 2: What is needed to access USLM technology for agency use? Is this integrated into FDMS?\
\
Daniene Byrne: Can I request these archived documents as a member of the public?\
\
Aaron Meyers: yes\
\
Aaron Meyers: if youre on the registered list youll get it, if you arent just let me know at aaron.meyers@gsa.gov\
\
Stu Shulman: Though APA is from 1940s and could perhaps be updated?\
\
Aaron Meyers: the transcript will take 2 to 3 weeks to prepare, material should all be sent at around that point\
\
Aaron Meyers: as soon as i have everything\
\
Tom Sabo: definitely entity extraction. Think vaping organizations examining the regulation around vaping and flavors to better assess what appeals to their customer base.\
\
Deborah Bartram: Any chance of sending out the presentation today after the meeting concludes?\
\
Stu Shulman: Can you make the public comments about this forum visible on Regulations.gov? If there are 12, why are they hidden from public view?\
\
Stu Shulman: There is no reason to get away from APIs\
\
Stu Shulman: Just build one that works.\
\
Devin Judge-Lord: Right, we just need a bulk option\
\
Tom Sabo: Yes, thanks to GSA for hosting this public forum!\
\
Deborah Bartram: Speakers did GREAT!\
\
Henry Hoffman: Thank you GSA and panelists!\
\
Devin Judge-Lord: Agreed, thanks GSA for doing this!\
\
Alex Howard: Thank you everyone!\
\
Mark Febrizio: Thank you speakers and hosts!\
\
Aaron Meyers: thanks everyone!  once again you will get all material emailed to you.  if you arent registered or wish it sent to another address aaron.meyers@gsa.gov\
\
Mark Lawyer: Thanks to GSA and all presenters...  keeping moving forward.\
\
Drew Hall: Thank you Virgnia for your patience! Thank you panelists!\
\
Daniene Byrne: Thanks to all - you are very approachable.  : )\
\
ICF 2: Thank you, GSA and presenters. This has been very informative.\
\
Tim Andry: Thank you GSA, presenters, and host\
\
Steve Balla: Very helpful program!\
\
Assem: Thanks for hosting this!\
\
Debra Janes 2: Thanks!\
\
Kareem Nakshbendi: Thank you!\
\
Lisa J McKeen 2 2: Thank  you! \
\
Joanna Moore: Thank-you!\
\
Anthony: Thanks all!\
\
Amy Bessada: Thank you!\
\
Carey Johnston: well done everyone!\
\
Andrew Emery: Great work Virgnia and the rest of GSA. Thank you!\
\
Kunal Suryavanshi: Thank you all for your briefings.  Thank you Virginia and Tobias.\
}