{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Virginia Huth: Hi everyone, this is the chat box where people can ask questions.\
\
Virginia Huth: If you have dialed in, click *6 to unmute on your phone\
\
Virginia Huth: sorry #6\
\
Virginia Huth: Jessica I cannot hear you\
\
Jessica Salmoiraghi: I'm not on the phone\
\
Jessica Salmoiraghi: Yes, I can hear you.\
\
Jessica Salmoiraghi: no\
\
Jessica Salmoiraghi: i'm going to call in\
\
Jessica Salmoiraghi: i'm on.\
\
Virginia Huth: I can see you typing\
\
Jessica Salmoiraghi: Can you hear me? \
\
Virginia Huth: no\
\
Jessica Salmoiraghi: Ok. Well, I'll listen in.\
\
Virginia Huth: Are you on your phone?  press #6\
\
Jessica Salmoiraghi: The phone and the meeting are conflicting. \
\
Jessica Salmoiraghi: Just continue and I'll listen in. \
\
Virginia Huth: You need to mute your coputer --- look at the top part at the little microphone. \
\
Jessica Salmoiraghi: please continue\
\
Virginia Huth: ok\
\
Aaron Meyers: I'll have my inbox up if anyone who is phone only needs to get the attention of a speaker\
\
Jessica Salmoiraghi: That's a great way to help it through.\
\
Virginia Huth: ok\
\
CART WRITER: Hi, Any chance you can make me a host?\
\
Todd Rubin: Is there technology available that would allow agencies to easily screen comments, before comments are posted, for social security numbers, bank account numbers, and other unique identification numbers that do not belong in comments and, if disclosed, create a high risk of identity theft? If so, how can agencies obtain such technology? \
\
Deborah Bartram: Why does the screen keep changing with the chat box getting large and moving around the screen?\
\
Guest: Can you please stop rearranging, closing, opening, and overlapping the webinar windows? It's very distracting. And why are the chat and Q & A windows mostly not available?\
\
Tim F.: I believe the regulations.gov has a rate limit for downloading comments. How do you scale out dealing with lots of comments when the API limits the number of comments you can download?\
\
Devin Judge-Lord: What portion of FDA rules use contractors to process comments? What portion of comments do contractors process?\
\
Stu Shulman: Todd: DiscoverText.com\
\
Guest: This is an embarrasing presentation.\
\
Gus Creedon: nice job on the content so far! thx\
\
Stu Shulman: I have a specific question about the API use\
\
Deborah Bartram: how does the text analytics described by Tom dovetail with the text anlytics done by FDMS?\
\
Ron Schmelzer: Hello - so is the Unsupervised Learning system in production for all regulations? \
\
John Jost: Thank you Q&A box now.\
\
Stu Shulman: Excellent API question!\
\
Alex Howard: What is the responsibility of agencies to use social media, notiications and email to engage the public in rulemaking? Why is modernizing limited to addressing the fake or fraudulent comment problem?\
\
Debra Janes: How does text analytics capture 100% of technical comments?  I can understand group comments...but how can one have confidence in the system not to miss comments.\
\
vivian 2: What software does FDA use to weed out duplicates? FDMS has some capability to identify mail in campaigns and duplicates but cannot extract them so they aren't included in the Bulk downloads\
\
Kelly Odom: Is it better to post comments as you receive them or to wait and de-duplicate at the end of the comment period?\
\
Stu Shulman: Debra Text Analytics cannot handle all technical comments\
\
Ramona Schreiber: Is there guidance, or thought about taking comments by way  web-based  presentations - webinars. Are comments taken through a chat box (like we are using here) part of the federal record?\
\
Stu Shulman: Too many formulae in PDFs\
\
Katherine Gillespie 2: when the analytics reveals the use of form letters, what does the FDA do with that information? Some of the letter may be unique\
\
Aaron Meyers: everyone i apolagize, im having some problems locking down the controls on resizing\
\
Richard Belzer: Is there any efficient technology for the public to use to download comments from regulaions.gov? \
\
Aaron Meyers: this will all be fixed and stable shortly\
\
Stu Shulman: Vivian: we get 100 % of the comments in out bulk extracts\
\
Alex Howard: Has the GSA considered using Login.gov to give Americans the ability to authenticate ourselves in online eRulemaking to address the fraud or fake issues? Why or why not?\
\
loren thompson: Historically, responding to rules with mass mailings was intended to punish rulewriters by swampin them with responses.  Have those kinds of responders found a way aroud the technologies you referred to just now to inflict their pain?\
\
Ron Schmelzer: What is Tom's full name?\
\
Aaron Meyers: Tom Sabo\
\
Devin Judge-Lord: Will the code used for text analysis used be part of the record or otherwise made public? Will it use open-source software?\
\
Ramona Schreiber: What modernized methods are recommended to replace the old school approach of noticing in paper newspapers and hard copy documents being sent to libraries/repositories. Is this still necessary? Are there modernized approaches to recommend?\
\
Stu Shulman: Loren: it is a legal right to submit forms, but the agency only needs to read one\
\
Gus Creedon: we're all in this together.\
\
TheOne: Is this working\
\
Devin Judge-Lord: Thank you for this meeting!\
\
Jeffrey Lubbers: How do you deal with profanity, copyrighted material, and confidential business information in your comments?\
\
Sam Le: How do you batch extract PDF comments from regulations.gov? Is that only possible through an API? And, secondly, is there open-source code for working with the regulations.gov API?\
\
Alex Howard: Why is the GSA still using Adobe Connect, which requires the public to use Flash? DOD & CISA say it's insecure and risky. https://media.defense.gov/2019/Sep/25/2002186834/-1/-1/0/CSA%20-%20CONTINUED%20USE%20OF%20ADOBE%20FLASH%20INVITES%20COMPROMISE.PDF\
\
Stu Shulman: Jeffrey: we built redaction tools for FOIA redactions\
\
Maria K.: If text analytics are used to group comments that are mostly similar, how can you ensure that comments aren't missed (i.e., where the comments are different).\
\
Cali Diehl: Agreed, Gus! \
\
Stu Shulman: Maria, we have been doing this for 10 years. The technology for deduplication and near duplicate clusters is very mature\
\
Ron Schmelzer: Alex: EXCELLENT question on Adobe Connect\
\
Lisa J McKeen: When I have submitted comments they were posted, sometimes hard to locate the ID# for reviewing the documents\
\
Deborah Bartram: ow does the text analytics described by Tom dovetail with the text anlytics already done by FDMS to identify duplicates and form letters?\
\
Stu Shulman: https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~callan/Papers/dgo05-huiyang.pdf\
\
Jamie Conrad: Sam Le's question is a good one -- how do you deal w/ pdfs?\
\
Stu Shulman: https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~callan/Papers/dgo05-huiyang.pdf\
\
Tom Sabo: Hi Maria - If there's enough responses, we do a second round of topic analysis on level 1 topics to identify subtopics.. Also, there are often outlyers which would require manual analysis, but if we can cut out 80 or 90% of the manual review, that can take down a lot of hours\
\
Gus Creedon: Thanks Cali\
\
Ron Schmelzer: QUESTION on Unsupervised Learning: How was the system trained? Any insights into algo used?\
\
Stu Shulman: They are a legally enshrined right\
\
Elizabeth Kowalewski: I will be discussing how to analyze the PDF attachments during my presentation\
\
Anna Chauvet: Which data analytics software do you recommend using?\
\
Alex Howard: Thank you for brining up the question  Please aaad the text of these instead of summarizing them. It's true that agencies use social media to alert people, but not often. How many dockets has the FDA promoted on social media? Why shouldn't modernization include systematic memorialization of promotion of dockets on social media? Agencies already archive socail media posts by leadership, like Dr. Gottlieb.\
\
Daniene Byrne: When I download using an api the comments are all listed as web addresses. How does one get the text for PDF's? \
\
Tom Sabo: PDF is a good question. Part of this is identifying whether there is form data associted to it, and automated extraction on that form data\
\
Chris Wolz: What will be GSA's process / schedule following this meeting to define requirements for the new platform? \
\
Stu Shulman: i of all the duplicate all of the near duplicates are required plus the singles\
\
Dylan Stroman, Court Reporter: Who is speaking currently?\
\
Aaron Meyers: that is tom sabo\
\
Daniene Byrne: Thanks T.S. would that be done in python?\
\
Dylan Stroman, Court Reporter: Thank you.\
\
Stu Shulman: One copy of every form, every near duplicate, and all singles are the minimal legal requirement\
\
Sam Le: Thank you, Elizabeth. I am not able to get to the PDF through a URL--you have to go to the page and download the individual PDF. That makes it hard to batch download them. -Sam\
\
Deborah Bartram: How do text analytics work with non-machine readable comments?\
\
Aaron Meyers: everyone, just as an FYI, i will be killing the chat pod between Q and A sessions. it will help our resizing issues\
\
Tom Sabo: you could do it in python. SAS has a bunch of tools that eases the process in a graphical user interface\
\
Cali Diehl: What is the specific text analysis software that was just discussed? Are there any plans to roll out enhanced text analysis for public comments across federal agencies?\
\
Maria K.: Aren't there times when comment volume should be taken into account, even if many are form letters?  Particularly if overwhelming majorities of the commenting public express a certain opinon on the rulemaking.\
\
Stu Shulman: DiscoverText.comis a GSA Schedule 70 product \
\
Elizabeth Kowalewski: Sam, yes, I will touch on our experience with this in panel 3\
\
Tom Sabo: at the end of the day, a combination of code and gui can really help... not everyone is a coder but do have business acumen that needs to be incorporated\
\
Stu Shulman: We started research on this in 2000. \
\
Alex Howard: Given the clear benefits that collecting comments as structured data has for both analytics and disclosure, why isn't the GSA eliminating the use of PDFs as a format? \
\
Sarah Selenich: Agencies sometimes request comments on several specific things. Is there a way to ask commenters to select which requests they are responding to/organize comments. This would also help with oganizing those that are not germane to a request.\
\
Anna Chauvet: Do you have more information about how you handle confidential information being submitted?\
\
Todd Rubin: Do agencies have the option to allow comments to go live on Regulations.gov as soon as they are submitted?  Do any agencies exercise this option or do they all choose to upload the comments themselves?\
\
Stu Shulman: PDFs: print them and get out your highlighter pens...\
\
Stu Shulman: There is no OCR that produces legally defensible plain text in 100% of documents.\
\
Jamie Conrad: Todd Rubin's question is good, too -- often comments don't get posted for a long time.  Why not have them post automatically, and then you can weed out the offensive and irrelevant ones later.\
\
Stu Shulman: PDFs? Ban them!\
\
Andrew Emery: DocketCAT uses the API to access Regulations.gov and also has techology to read PDFs, regardless of how they are formed.\
\
Alex Howard: The best way to avoid errors from OCR'ed a PDF is to not put data in PDFs. How is the GSA ensuring that agencies collect & disclose rata in an open, structured format as the OPEN Governmetn Data Act requires? \
\
Stu Shulman: +1 Alex\
\
Daniene Byrne: require comments by text\
\
Aaron Meyers: If we do not have time to get to your question please be aware we will be reviewing questions and comments on regulations.gov  https://www.regulations.gov/document?D=GSA-GSA-2020-0002-0012\
\
Devin Judge-Lord: +1 Alex\
\
Stu Shulman: Do not shut off this chat\
\
Stu Shulman: The whole point of online is in this chat box\
\
Daniene Byrne: thanks Andrew\
\
Tom Sabo: text is definitely easier to analyze - there is often damage to text from an OCR process. We can fix some of that after the fact but it's not perfect\
\
Gabrielle Perret: GSA is seeking public comment on any matters related to the modernization of Electronic Rulemaking Management. You can learn more and submit your comment here: regulations.gov/document?D=GSA-GSA-2020-0002-0012\
\
Aaron Meyers: ill do my best to maintain the chat window, if it blocks the presentation during speaking it will come back at Q and A\
\
Alex Howard: @Aaron Meyers: Thank you. I hope the GSA will address the security issue posed by requiring us to have and use Flash. There are other virtual meeting options. \
\
Alex Howard: @Gabrielle: Thank you! The notice has been updated and says "Comments related to any aspect of modernization of Electronic Rulemaking Management must be submitted no later than Wednesday, June 3, 2020" -- not today. Can you please confirm?\
\
Stu Shulman: https://www.screencast.com/t/JdV0uoruZ DOI software training for public comment management\
\
Stu Shulman: https://www.screencast.com/t/qHvo4Ck18d FWS software training on public comment review\
\
Gabrielle Perret: @Alex - It has been extended to June 5: https://www.regulations.gov/docket?D=GSA-GSA-2020-0002\
\
Stu Shulman: https://scholarworks.umass.edu/erulemaking/\
\
Jeffrey Lubbers: Powerpoints are not displayin properly.\
\
Devin Judge-Lord: If agencies write rules based on analysis\'a0of comments from consultants, the methods and software code used to summarize or "weed out" comments should be part of the record. Is there an example where these supplemental\'a0files have been posted?\'a0\
\
TheOne: solid point Devin\
\
Chandra Middleton: @Gabrielle -- The Federal Register announcment says June 3rd. Are comments due June 3rd or June 5th? Thanks for any clarification!\
\
Courtney Haueter: Excellent question @Devin!\
\
Jeffrey Lubbers: Question for Carey:  Ideally, the dockets for each individual rulemaking on regulations.gov should seek to include the all the meaningful steps in the process, not only the NPRM and comments and final rule, but also tapes of any hearings, OMB review documents, cost-benefit analyses, any other impact statements, SBREFA review panel documents, risk assessments, peer review information, court decisions, and links to relevant guidance documents?  Do you agree?\
\
Alex Howard: @Stu: the link the GSA staffer shared says June 3: https://www.regulations.gov/document?D=GSA-GSA-2020-0002-0012\
\
Stu Shulman: @Alex 1 comment?\
\
Stu Shulman: I thought I submitted a comment. \
\
Richard Belzer: A common problem I observe is a searchable title to a regulations.gov is diffeent from he PDFattached.\
\
Gabrielle Perret: @Alex - I just confirmed it is extended to June 5th and flagged for team to follow up on the site that says June 3\
\
Todd Rubin: Here is the link to ACUS's work on Regulations.gov that Ms. Cosby just referred to: https://www.acus.gov/research-projects/improving-access-regulationsgovs-rulemaking-dockets\
\
Molly Stasko: Can we receive a copy of this presentation?\
\
Aaron Meyers: yes.\
\
Aaron Meyers: to answer the question about the deadline, in the document it was the 3rd, we've extended it to the 5th to givem ore time\
\
Aaron Meyers: because of the time in which it published in the FR\
\
Aaron Meyers: versus what was originally predicted\
\
Jamie Conrad: One of the key ways that Regulations.gov could be improved would be to provide some structure for  agency "Supporting Documents."  E.g., for EPA's currently pending NPRM on CERCLA \'a7 108(b) for chemical facilities (EPA-HQ-OLEM-2019-0086), there are 1,018 supporting documents, in NO particular order.  It's a dog's breakfast.  This is typical. \
\
Stu Shulman: It might be useful to distribute this chat as a PDF after teh session to all attendees\
\
Aaron Meyers: i'll make it all a record and email it out\
\
Aaron Meyers: with a transcript and link to a record of the video\
\
Deborah Bartram: good presentation Michelle!\
\
Stu Shulman: How many public comments have been submitted on this topic and when will they be posted?\
\
Devin Judge-Lord: Thanks, Michelle--these are important steps.\
\
Stu Shulman: You have to upgrade teh FDMS API before we can use it and we have used APIs for a decade.\
\
Stu Shulman: The FDMS API is incomplete\
\
Stu Shulman: The bulk extract is the only route for a legally defensible method\
\
Stu Shulman: Who is web scraping?\
\
Stu Shulman: When will non agency officials be able to request a bulk extract? Currently we get the dowload link and PIN from the agencies.\
\
Walton Francis: Just testing this comment system\
\
Jamie Conrad: The public should not have to use APIs to make use of Regs.gov.  It smacks of the bad old days, when you had to hire law firms to send paralegals to root through the (paper) docket.\
\
Richard Belzer: Amen, @Jamie.\
\
Alex Howard: @Stu this page shows 12 comments submitted to date: https://www.regulations.gov/document?D=GSA-GSA-2019-0002-0025 \
\
Devin Judge-Lord: I have not heard anything since Michelle finished. Is it just my audio? \
\
Alex Howard: +1 @Jamie\
\
Stu Shulman: @alex is there a way to read them?\
\
Walton Francis: It would be helpful to all to have email addresses for some of the key people commenting or responding: Aaron Meyers, Stu Shulman, Jeffrey Lubbers, Richard Belzer. I'm walton.francis@mac.com and will be sending a detailed comment on major regs.gov problems and how to fix them.\
}