{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2638
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red47\green49\blue33;\red75\green149\blue75;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red83\green83\blue83;\red21\green166\blue236;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c24314\c25098\c17255;\cssrgb\c35294\c63922\c36471;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c40000\c40000\c40000;\cssrgb\c0\c71373\c94118;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat18\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww19280\viewh12460\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\fs46\fsmilli23333 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Cmtys. Against Runway Expansion, Inc. v. FAA
\f1\i0 , 355 F.3d 678, 689 (D.C. Cir. 2004) (\'93When an agency includes an environmental justice analysis of the effects on minority and low-income populations in its [environmental impact statement], then the environmental justice analysis can be reviewed under NEPA and the APA.\'94); 
\f0\i Coliseum Square Ass\'92n, Inc. v. Jackson
\f1\i0 , 465 F.3d 215, 232 (5th Cir. 2006) 
\fs44 \cf4 \cb1 \
\

\fs46\fsmilli23333 \cf2 \cb3 Robert Bullard, 
\f0\i Race and Environmental Justice in the United States
\f1\i0 , 18 Yale L. J. 319 (1993) (\'93Eco- logical inequities in the United States result from a number of factors, including the distribution of wealth, housing and real estate practices, and land use planning.\'94 (citing Robert D. Bullard, Dumping in Dixie: Race, Class, and Environmental Quality 1\'9624 (1990))). 
\fs44 \cf4 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs52 \cf5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs46\fsmilli23333 \cf2 \cb3 Daniel M. Sullivan, 
\f0\i The True Cost of Air Pollution: Evidence from House Prices and Migration
\f1\i0 , Harvard Env\'92t Econ Progr. Discussion Paper No. 16-69 (2016). 
\fs44 \cf4 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs52 \cf5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs46\fsmilli23333 \cf2 \cb3 Tamma A. Carleton & Solomon M. Hsiang, 
\f0\i Social and Economic Impacts of Climate
\f1\i0 , 353 Science (2016). 
\fs44 \cf4 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs52 \cf5 \
\
\
In 2005, under Administrator Stephen Johnson\'a0the Environmental Protection\'a0Agency (EPA) -- the lead agency charged with implementing the Order --\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://insideepa.com/Environmental-Policy-Alert/Environmental-Policy-Alert-07/06/2005/epas-draft-equity-plan-drops-race-as-a-factor-in-future-decisions/menu-id-1095.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 attempted to redefine the purpose of the Order\'a0}}by dropping race as a factor in identifying and prioritizing populations\
\
\'a0two scathing reports by\'a0EPA's own Office of Inspector General\'a0(one in\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.epa.gov/oig/reports/2004/20040301-2004-P-00007.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 2004}}\'a0and one in\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.epa.gov/oig/reports/2006/20060918-2006-P-00034.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 2006}})\'a0concluding that\'a0EPA had failed to properly implement the intent of the Executive Order.\
\
Administrator Jackson named\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://blog.epa.gov/administrator/2010/01/12/seven-priorities-for-epas-future/"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 EJ as one of her top priorities}}\'a0\
\
EJ and paid it a lot of lip service, it has\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://grist.org/climate-energy/environmental-justice-leaders-to-obama-theres-a-gap-in-your-climate-plan/"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 failed to make substantive strides forward in implementing EJ policies and rules that significantly impact communities}}. Nevertheless, the Obama Administration has\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.eenews.net/stories/1059987076"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 signified a continuing commitment to EJ under EPA's new Administrator Gina McCarthy}}. Moreover, today President Obama issued a\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2014/02/10/presidential-proclamation-20th-anniversary-executive-order-12898-environ"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 Presidential Proclamation}}\'a0today declaring February 11, 2014\'a0 the 20th Anniversary of the Order on EJ.\
\
Dr. Bullard's new report on EJ\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://tsu.edu/academics/colleges__schools/publicaffairs/files/pdf/EJMilestoneExecutiveSummary.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 here}}.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.drrobertbullard.com/blog/item/15-environmental-justice-milestones-four-decades-and-counting-1964-2011.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 Environmental Justice Movement}}\'a0in the United States over the past five decades, beginning with the passage of the\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Civil_Rights_Act_of_1964"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 Civil Rights Act of 1964}}\'a0\
\
\'a0the most potent predictor of\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://thenationshealth.aphapublications.org/content/41/3/4.2.full"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 health}}\'a0is zip code.\'a0 Race and poverty are also powerful predictors of students who attend\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://content.healthaffairs.org/content/early/2011/05/02/hlthaff.2011.0077.abstract"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 schools near polluting facilities}}, the location of\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2705126/"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 polluted neighborhoods}}\'a0that pose the greatest threat to human health,\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=toxic%20wastes%20and%20race%20at%20twenty&source=web&cd=1&cad=rja&sqi=2&ved=0CCUQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.ucc.org%2Fassets%2Fpdfs%2Ftoxic20.pdf&ei=MZD2UoWNIMiG2gWlqoFw&usg=AFQjCNGkt-vHDTh4jauH8mYRqfrRl3FuIw&bvm=bv.60983673,d.b2I"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 hazardous waste facilities}},\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://articles.latimes.com/2013/jul/09/science/la-sci-sn-minorities-urban-heat-islands-20130709"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 urban heat islands}}, and access to\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0091743513003988"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 healthy foods}},\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://cityprojectca.org/ourwork/mappinggreenaccess/"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 parks}}, and\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ehp.niehs.nih.gov/1205919/"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 tree cover}}.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs46\fsmilli23333 \cf2 \cb3 Eileen Gauna et al., 
\f0\i A Survey of Federal Agency Responses to President Clinton\'92s Executive Order Number 12898 on Environ- mental Justice
\f1\i0 , 31 Env\'92t L. Rep\'92r 11,133 (2001). 
\fs44 \cf4 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs52 \cf5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf4 Richard L. Revesz, Regulation and Distribution, 93 N.Y.U. L. Rev. 1489, 1534\'9640 (explaining that \'93political commitment to the goals of the Executive Order has varied across different presidencies,\'94 but that even after \'93positive developments\'94 during the Obama administration \'93environmental justice concerns appear not to be fully integrated into the EPA\'92s decisionmaking\'94); Nicholas Bagley & Richard L. Revesz, Centralized Oversight of the Regulatory State, 106 Colum. L. Rev. 1260, 1325 (2006) (calling the Executive Order \'93ineffective,\'94 and noting that environmental equity concerns are \'93not a prominent feature of regulatory decisionmaking\'94)
\f2\fs52 \cf5 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\fs46\fsmilli23333 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Elizabeth Ann Glass Geltman et al., 
\f0\i Beyond Baby Steps An Empirical Study of the Impact of Environmental Justice Execu- tive Order 12898
\f1\i0 , 39 Family and Cmty. Health 143, 143 (2016); 
\f0\i see also 
\f1\i0 Revesz, 
\f0\i supra 
\f1\i0 note 16, at 1540 (\'93[O]f the nearly 4000 rules the EPA promulgated during the Obama administration, the agency referred to only seven as ones taking environmental justice concerns into account.\'94). \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs44 \cf4 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\
{\listtext	.	}
\fs46\fsmilli23333 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
SAFE Rule, 85 Fed. Reg. at 25,262 (\'93Any impacts of this rulemaking on low-income and minority communi- ties would be attenuated by a lengthy causal chain 
\fs44 \cf4 \cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\
{\listtext	.	}\
{\listtext	.	}
\fs46\fsmilli23333 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Oil and Natural Gas Sector: Emission Standards for New, Reconstructed, and Modi- fied Sources Reconsideration, 85 Fed. Reg. 57,398, 57,437 (Sept. 15, 2020) (\'93EPA believes that this action does not have disproportionately high and adverse human health or environmental effects on minority populations, low-in- come populations, and/or indigenous peoples, as specified in Executive Order 12898. . . . While these communities may experience forgone benefits as a result of this action, the potential forgone emission reductions (and related benefits) from the final amendments are small compared to the overall emission reductions 
\fs44 \cf4 \cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\
{\listtext	.	}\
{\listtext	.	}
\fs46\fsmilli23333 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Office of Surface Mining to expand the Bull Mountains 
\fs44 \cf4 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\i\fs46\fsmilli23333 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
See 
\f1\i0 Jonathan S. Masur & Eric A. Posner, 
\f0\i Cost-Benefit Analy- sis and the Judicial Role
\f1\i0 , 85 U. Chi. L. Rev. 935 (2018). 
\fs44 \cf4 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs46\fsmilli23333 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Because Executive Order 12,898 requires only consideration of disparate 
\f0\i adverse 
\f1\i0 impacts, it technically does not require any consideration of the disparate 
\f0\i beneficial 
\f1\i0 impacts of a project or rule that reduces greenhouse gas emissions. Exec. Ord. No. 12898 \'a7 3-302. Nonetheless, agencies under the Obama administration sometimes provided descriptions of the environmental justice benefits flow- 
\fs44 \cf4 \cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs46\fsmilli23333 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ing from a rule\'92s expected reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. 
\f0\i See, e.g.
\f1\i0 , Carbon Pollution Emission Guidelines for Existing Stationary Sources: Electric Utility Generating Units, 80 Fed. Reg. 64,662, 64,940\'9641 (Oct. 23, 2015). However, such analyses were inconsistently provided, and typically more qualitative than quantitative. 
\fs44 \cf4 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\i\fs46\fsmilli23333 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
FCC v. Fox Television Stations, Inc.
\f1\i0 , 556 U.S. 502, 515\'9616 (2009); 
\f0\i see also Organized Vill. of Kake v. U.S. Dep't of Agric.
\f1\i0 , 795 F.3d 956, 968 (9th Cir. 2015) (\'93[E]ven when reversing a policy after an election, an agency may not simply discard prior factual findings without a reasoned explanation.\'94). 
\fs44 \cf4 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs46\fsmilli23333 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
For more on environmental injustice as a product of vari- ous factors, see Robert Bullard, 
\f0\i Race and Environmental Justice in the United States
\f1\i0 , 18 Yale L. J. 319 (1993) (\'93Eco- logical inequities in the United States result from a number of factors, including the distribution of wealth, housing and real estate practices, and land use planning.\'94 (citing Robert D. Bullard, Dumping in Dixie: Race, Class, and Environmental Quality 1\'9624 (1990))). 
\fs44 \cf4 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\i\fs46\fsmilli23333 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
See 
\f1\i0 Federal Reserve, Federal Fair Lending Regulations and Statutes, Fair Housing Act Consumer Compliance Hand- book 1 (\'93Redlining is the practice of denying a creditwor- thy applicant a loan for housing in a certain neighborhood even though the applicant may otherwise be eligible for the 
\fs44 \cf4 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs36 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
36 
\fs44 \cf4 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs46\fsmilli23333 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Mine in Montana will result in the emission of 190 mil- lion tons of carbon dioxide\'97an amount that the agency brushed aside as \'93minor\'94 because it amounts to just 0.44 percent of annual global emissions. Bull Mountains Mine No. 1 Federal Mining Plan Modification Environmental Assessment 56\'9657 (2018) 
\fs44 \cf4 \cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\
{\listtext	.	}\
{\listtext	.	}
\fs46\fsmilli23333 \cf2 \cb3 	.	\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
A regulation is arbitrary and capricious under the APA\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 if the issuing agency fails to \'93examine the relevant data\'94\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 or \'93consider an important aspect of the problem.\'94 
\f0\i Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Ass\'92n v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
\f1\i0 , 463 U.S. 29, 43 (1983) (internal quotation marks omitted). Fur- thermore, the costs that an agency must consider \'93include [] more than the expense of complying with the regula- tions\'94; instead, \'93any disadvantage could be termed a cost.\'94 
\f0\i Michigan v. EPA
\f1\i0 , 135 S. Ct. 2699, 2707 (2015). 
\fs44 \cf4 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}
\fs46\fsmilli23333 \cf2 \cb3 	.	\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
EPA, 
\f0\i EJ Screening Report for the Clean Power Plan 
\f1\i0 6 (2015), https://archive.epa.gov/epa/sites/production/ files/2016-04/documents/ejscreencpp.pdf. 
\fs44 \cf4 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}
\fs52 \cf2 \cb7 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
EPA clearly states that \'93[c]limate change is an environmental justice issue\'94 in the preamble to the Clean Power Plan. 
\fs44 \cf4 \cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}
\fs52 \cf2 \cb7 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'93already overburdened by pollution,\'94 \'93are disproportionately affected by climate change and are less resilient than others to adapt or recover from climate change impacts,\'94 
\fs44 \cf4 \cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}
\fs52 \cf2 \cb7 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
EPA goes on to explain that it \'93considered climate change risks to minority and low-income populations, finding that certain parts of the population may be especially vulnerable based on their characteristics or circumstances,\'94 
\fs44 \cf4 \cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}
\fs52 \cf2 \cb7 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
emissions reductions would be \'93particularly beneficial to populations that are disproportionately vulnerable to the impacts of climate change and air pollution.\'94 While the location-specific analysis included in the EIS is useful for concretizing the effects of climate change on particular low-income and minority communities, BOEM should have done more with respect to a nationwide discussion of climate impacts and environmental justice. While BOEM makes a generic statement about how climate change affects frontline communities,
\fs38\fsmilli19333 \up10 135 
\fs52 \up0 its analysis lacks specificity and does little to meaningfully assess the detrimental effects that the greenhouse gases resulting from offshore oil and gas leasing would have on low-income and minority communities across the United States. Because its description is brief and generic, it could only be useful as part of a larger analysis that considers specific climate impacts on low-income and minority communities. 
\fs44 \cf4 \cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}
\fs52 \cf2 \cb7 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
For the Gulf of Mexico region, BOEM notes that the area is still recovering from several extreme weather events over the past 15 years, and highlights why such climate impacts have environmental justice implications: \'93These events have had disproportionate effects on communities of color and low-income populations, especially in terms of property damage and loss of income.\'94 BOEM builds on this assessment by noting how the effects of severe weather exacerbate the disparate climate impacts these communities face. \'93This makes these groups more vulnerable to any new hazard or natural disaster.\'94
\fs38\fsmilli19333 \up10 133 
\fs52 \up0 The agency also lists a number of other climate impacts, like coastal erosion and increasing frequency of storm surges, to which low-income and minority communities around the Gulf of Mexico are particularly vulnerable.
\fs38\fsmilli19333 \up10 134 
\fs44 \cf4 \cb1 \up0 \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\
}