{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat66\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww21540\viewh28500\viewkind1
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf0 \
# Participation is important \
\
\'93Public participation is a cornerstone of administrative law\'94 [@Seifter2015]\
\
\'93Courrts and commentators celebrate participation as a crucial way to help legitimate the administrative state and improve agency decisions\'94 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Wendy Wagner, The Participation-Centered Model Meets Administrative Process, 2013 WIS. L. REV. 671, 677\'9678 (2013) (describing the goal of \'93[m]aximizing the participation of affected parties, without bias or capture,\'94 as \'93central to the design of administrative process\'94); \
Richard A. Bierschbach & Stephanos Bibas, Notice-and-Comment Sentencing, 97 MINN. L. REV. 1, 24 (2012) (noting that \'93virtually all of the major theories that seek to legitimate administrative decision-making see participation as important\'94 \
\
- legitimacy\
- facts\
- arguments\
Ernest Gellhorn, Public Participation in Administrative Proceedings, 81 YALE L.J. 359, 359 (1972) (\'93[W]hen government agencies are challenged as being unresponsive to public needs and to the public interest, one \'91solution\'92 frequently suggested is to broaden citizen involvement and participation in administrative decision making.\'94). \
\
Gellhorn, supra note 1, at 403 (\'93The emergence of individuals and groups willing to assist administrative agencies in identifying interests deserving protection, in producing relevant evidence and argument suggesting appropriate action, and in closing the gap between the agencies and their ultimate constituents presents an opportunity to improve the administrative process.\'94 \
\
Mead de\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
cision\'97a key pillar of the \'93Chevron Step Zero\'94\up10 49 \up0 line of cases addressing whether agencies\'92 statutory interpretations are eligible for Chevron deference\'97 focused on whether agency procedures \'93foster . . . fairness and deliberation\'94\
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \uc0\u8232 \
# Legitimacy \
\
\'93\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The administrative process counts on interest groups to accomplish much of what is believed to make the administrative state acceptable, but we seldom look at them closely\'94 \
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
celebrated as \'93a crucial way to ensure that agency decisions are legitimate, accountable, and just.\'94 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 	17.	\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Richard A. Bierschbach & Stephanos Bibas, Notice-and-Comment Sentencing, 97 MINN. L. REV. \uc0\u8232 1, 20 (2012). \u8232 \
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
# Groups \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Interest groups are ubiquitous and dominant [pg. 1307]\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 participation in much of agency policymaking is an interest group\'92s game 
\fs24 [pg. 1315]\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa213\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	66.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'93Because the costs of individualized participation in policy decision making are often excessive, informal representatives are prevalent as a form of participation in agency decisions.\'94 
\fs21\fsmilli10667 Rossi pg. 194
\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Freeman, The Private Role in Public Governance, \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
While administrative law scholars generally distinguish the participation of groups and individual citizens, (@Yackee2019 QUOTE, Seifter2015) I argue that we should view individual participation as a result of interests group mobilization. Indeed, I show that the vast majority of it is mobilized. The small, amount that remains, disconnected from an organized lobbying effort can be safely ignored empirically. Indeed efforts to broaden citizen participation that seek *unmediated* participation are likely infeasible.\
\
# Expertise \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'93the expertise a group claims is often based on its ability to convey a particular constituency\'92s perspective, experience, or concerns...A group that does not have or engage with a membership cannot reliably convey those sorts of constituency-based insights. Moreover, even when a group\'92s assertions seem in- dependent of a constituency\'97say, the results of a scientific study\'97information about second-order participation matters. Understanding the group\'92s sources, funding, and potential biases is important to assessing the reliability of its in- formation and its contribution to agency expertise\'94 [@Seifter2015, pg. 1306].\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
# Agencies \
Public comment campaigns can be a resources for agencies as well. Agencies have come under fire for encouraging comments and campaigns that support their decisions (Ernest Gellhorn, Public Participation in Administrative Proceedings, 81 YALE L.J. 359, 359 (1972) (\'93[W]hen government agencies are challenged as being unresponsive to public needs and to the public interest, one \'91solution\'92 frequently suggested is to broaden citizen involvement and participation in administrative decision making.\'94). \
). Why would officials make efforts if public comments were not\
\
# Understudied \
\'93The dependence on interest groups to fulfill participation ideals is as understudied as it is widespread.\'94\
Cary Coglianese, Unequal Representation: Membership Input and Interest Group Decision- Making 2 (1996) (unpublished manuscript) (on file with author) (\'93When we consider the representational role interest groups play in pluralist, democratic politics, the relative paucity of research on the role of members in the decisions of these groups is striking. As others have noted, a gap exists in what we know about the representational link in interest group decision making.\'94) \uc0\u8232 \
\'93We have surprisingly little to say about how interest groups work, for whom they speak, and to what extent their involvement fulfills the rationales for the field\'92s deep commitment to participation\'94 [@Seifter2015, 1303].\
# Uncritical pluralists \
Pluralists portray \'93a representative system in which groups serve as an intermediary between the public and the government\'97channeling the majority will, valuable information, or both.\'94 [@Seifter2015, pg. 1303]\
\
# Memberless \
\
Skocpol \
\
# Reforms \
\
It is difficult to assess the extent to which members play a \'93meaningful role\'94 in interest group governance. The number of signature or letters a group can mobilize may be one of the clearest available signals of meaningful participation by people a group claims to represent.^[If a group has the resources to solicit petition signatures.]\
\
# Whymail\
\
\'93\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
models range from groups \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 that have no members at all to groups that afford members strong voice and exit \
rights. Groups at the former end of the spectrum are common in advocacy set- \
tings, because the features that make groups the most successful lobbyists tend to \
be at odds with second-order participation\'97that is, engaging with members can \
impede a group\'92s ability to take focused positions, to act quickly, and to appeal to donors. \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
}